Introduce Cookbook (#424)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/cookbook/use-multi-signature-transactions.md

---
title: 'Use Multi-Signature Transactions | Cookbook'
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: 'Learn how to use multi-signature transactions in Iroha.'
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: 'multi-signature transactions'
---

# How to Use Multi-Signature Transactions

> We will create an account with a key and set a rule that all transactions
> made by this account should be also signed by an additional key. Then we
> will perform a transaction itself, in two stages: first will be signed and
> submitted with the main account key, and then the same transaction will be
> submitted with an additional signature by the second key. To check if
> everything works, we will also create and asset and the multi-signature
> transaction will mint that asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to set up a rule that all transactions made by a specific account should also be signed by an additional key.

## Overview

<!-- maybe some extra introduction info here as well? -->

1. Create an account and set up a second signature rule for it.
2. Submit the transaction signed by the main account key.
3. Submit the same transaction signed by the second additional key.
4. Check if everything works correctly. <!-- rephrase this? what it means that everything is working? -->
```

> So, our first transaction will:
> 
> - Create account `mad_hatter` in `wonderland` domain with `key1`
> - Assign `SignatureCheckCondition` to it, which will enforce transactions
>   from `mad_hatter@wonderland` to have an additional `key2`
> - Register a numeric asset `casomile#wonderland` of type `Quantity` and
>   infinite mintability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example

1. Let's create an account that would need to have an additional signature for its transactions. Let's also create an asset that this account will later mint in order to check that the rule about second signature works as expected.

   The code below covers the following steps:

   - Create account `mad_hatter` in `wonderland` domain with `key1`.
   - Assign `SignatureCheckCondition` to the created account. This will enforce transactions from `mad_hatter@wonderland` to have an additional `key2`.
   - Register a numeric asset `casomile#wonderland` of type `Quantity` and infinite mintability.
```

  sugar.identifiable.newAssetDefinition(
    CASOMILE_DEFINITION_ID,
    datamodel.AssetValueType('Quantity'),
    {
      mintable: datamodel.Mintable('Infinitely'),
    },
  ),
  sugar.instruction.register,
)

const setSignatureCondition = sugar.instruction.mint(
  datamodel.Value(
    'SignatureCheckCondition',
    datamodel.SignatureCheckCondition(
      'AllAccountSignaturesAnd',
      datamodel.VecPublicKey(
        freeScope(() =>
          KEYS.map((keypair) => keypair.publicKey().toDataModel()),
        ),
      ),
    ),
  ),
  datamodel.IdBox('AccountId', MAD_HATTER),
)

// register Mad Hatter with the admin account

await blocks.wait(async () => {
  await clientAdmin.submitExecutable(
    pre,
    sugar.executable.instructions(registerAccount),
  )
})

// Register the asset definition with the Mad Hatter's account
await blocks.wait(async () => {
  await Torii.submit(
    pre,
    pipe(
      sugar.executable.instructions([
        registerAssetDefinition,
        setSignatureCondition,
      ]),
      (executable) =>
        makeTransactionPayload({ executable, accountId: MAD_HATTER }),
      (x) => makeSignedTransaction(x, signer1),
    ),
  )
})
```

:::

> Then we build the transaction with the account's primary key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Let's build the transaction with the account's primary key:
```

anything else to add to this step? what is the expected result?

::: code-group

```rust [Rust]
let quantity: u32 = 200;
let asset_id = AssetId::new(asset_definition_id, alice_id.clone());
let mint_asset = MintExpr::new(quantity.to_value(), IdBox::AssetId(asset_id.clone()));

let (public_key1, private_key1) = alice_key_pair.into();
client_configuration.account_id = alice_id.clone();
client_configuration.public_key = public_key1;
client_configuration.private_key = private_key1;
let client = Client::new(&client_configuration)?;
let instructions = [mint_asset.clone()];
let transaction = client.build_transaction(instructions, UnlimitedMetadata::new())?;
client.submit_transaction(&client.sign_transaction(transaction)?)?;
```

```ts [TypeScript]
const quantity = 100

const tx1 = makeSignedTransaction(
  makeTransactionPayload({
    executable: pipe(
      sugar.instruction.mint(
        sugar.value.numericU32(quantity),
        datamodel.IdBox(
          'AssetId',
          sugar.assetId(MAD_HATTER, CASOMILE_DEFINITION_ID),
        ),
      ),
      sugar.executable.instructions,
    ),
    accountId: MAD_HATTER,
  }),
  signer1,
)

await Torii.submit(pre, tx1)
```

:::

> After that, we sign the same transaction with the second key and submit it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Let's sign the same transaction with the second key and submit it:
```

::: code-group

```rust [Rust]
let (public_key2, private_key2) = key_pair_2.into();
client_configuration.public_key = public_key2;
client_configuration.private_key = private_key2;
let client_2 = Client::new(&client_configuration)?;
let instructions = [mint_asset];
let transaction = client_2.build_transaction(instructions, UnlimitedMetadata::new())?;
let transaction = client_2
    .get_original_transaction(&transaction, 3, Duration::from_millis(100))?
    .expect("Found no pending transaction for this account.");
client_2.submit_transaction(&client_2.sign_transaction(transaction)?)?;
```

```ts [TypeScript]
const tx2 =
  // we use `produce` from `immer` library
  // it allows us to produce a new value from `tx1` without touching it in a declarative way
  produce(tx1, (draft) => signTransaction(draft, signer2))

await Torii.submit(pre, tx2)
```

:::

> You could find full code here: [Rust](https://www.example.com/),
> [TypeScript](https://www.example.com/).

Reviewer: this will be links to the examples repo, right?

```suggestion
## Find More

You could find full code here: [Rust](https://www.example.com/),
[TypeScript](https://www.example.com/).
```

I think this section might also include other useful links, e.g. the link to the guide section of the docs where the topic at hand is discussed in details.

Author: > this will be links to the examples repo, right?

Yes

---
title: 'Use Multi-Signature Transactions | Cookbook'
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: 'Learn how to use multi-signature transactions in Iroha.'
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: 'multi-signature transactions'
---

# How to Use Multi-Signature Transactions

The following example shows how to set up a rule that all transactions made
by a specific account should also be signed by an additional key.

## Overview

<!-- maybe some extra introduction info here as well? -->

1. Create an account, set up a second signature rule for it, and register a
   new asset.
2. Submit the transaction signed by the main account key, minting the
   asset.
3. Check that the transaction is not committed by observing the asset.
4. Submit the same transaction signed by the second additional key.
5. Check that the transaction is committed, and the asset is minted.

## Example

1. Let's create an account that would need to have an additional signature
   for its transactions. Let's also create an asset that this account will
   later mint in order to check that the rule about second signature works
   as expected.

   The code below covers the following steps:

>    - Create account `mad_hatter` in `wonderland` domain with `key_pair_1`.
>    - Assign `SignatureCheckCondition` to the created account. This will
>      enforce transactions from `mad_hatter@wonderland` to have an
>      additional signature by `key_pair_2`.
>    - Register a numeric asset `casomile#wonderland` of type `Quantity` and
>      `Infinite` mintability.

Reviewer: The variable names vary depending on the language, e.g. `key_pair_1` vs. `keyPair1`, so I think we should make sure to not use them in text outside the code groups. Maybe if code needs clarifications, we could add comments in code.

```suggestion
   - Create account `mad_hatter` in `wonderland` domain using the first key pair.
   - Assign a *signature check condition* to the created account. This will
     enforce transactions from `mad_hatter@wonderland` to have an
     additional signature (*the second key pair*).
   - Register a numeric asset `casomile#wonderland` of type `Quantity` and
     `Infinite` mintability.
```

::: code-group

```rust [Rust]
let key_pair_1 = KeyPair::generate()?;
let key_pair_2 = KeyPair::generate()?;

let account_id = AccountId::from_str("mad_hatter@wonderland")?;
let asset_definition_id = AssetDefinitionId::from_str("camomile#wonderland")?;

let register_account = RegisterExpr::new(Account::new(
    account_id.clone(),
    [key_pair_1.public_key().clone()],
));
let set_signature_condition = MintExpr::new(
    SignatureCheckCondition::AllAccountSignaturesAnd(
        vec![key_pair_2.public_key().clone()].into(),
    ),
    IdBox::AccountId(account_id.clone()),
);
let register_asset_definition =
    RegisterExpr::new(AssetDefinition::quantity(asset_definition_id.clone()));

let _hash = admin_client.submit_all_blocking({

>     let isi: [InstructionExpr; 3] = [

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    let isi: [InstructionBox; _] = [
```

let transaction_1 = {
    let tx =
        mad_hatter_client.build_transaction([mint_asset.clone()], UnlimitedMetadata::new())?;
    mad_hatter_client.sign_transaction(tx)?
};
mad_hatter_client.submit_transaction(&transaction_1)?;
```

```ts [TypeScript]
const madHatterClient = new Client({
  signer: new Signer(accountId, keyPair1),
})

const quantity = 42
const assetId = sugar.assetId(accountId, assetDefinitionId)
const mintAsset = sugar.instruction.mint(
  sugar.value.numericU32(quantity),
  datamodel.IdBox('AssetId', assetId),
)

const transaction = makeSignedTransaction(
  makeTransactionPayload({
    executable: sugar.executable.instructions(mintAsset),
    accountId,
  }),
  madHatterClient.signer,
)

await Torii.submit(torii, transaction)
```

:::

3. Let's query the asset to ensure that the transaction was not committed
   yet, without the second signature:

::: code-group

```rust [Rust]
let error = mad_hatter_client
    .request(client::asset::by_id(asset_id.clone()))
    .expect_err("Asset should not be found");

assert!(matches!(
    error,
    ClientQueryError::Validation(ValidationFail::QueryFailed(QueryExecutionFail::Find(
        FindError::Asset(_)
    )))
));

> ```

Reviewer 3: What if this account has already that asset? Is there any reliable way to check? Is there any way to store partially signed transaction?
